.TH XScreenSaver 1 "10-May-2011 (5.13)" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xscreensaver-getimage-description - retrieve an image description
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xscreensaver-getimage-description
file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIxscreensaver\-getimage\-description\fP program is a helper program
for the xscreensaver hacks that show images.  Specifically, it
is invoked by
.BR xscreensaver\-getimage (1)
as needed.  This is not a user-level command.

There are multiple ways to attach description to an image: from keeping it
separately in a file or dedicated database, to embedding in the image file
itself, in various ways, depending on the image format.

Sometimes the description is typed in by the user to describe the scene, but in
many cases it is just an advertisement for the digital camera or photo editing
software, and as such is not useful for displaying by xscreensaver.
However we try as hard as we can, and ultimately it is up to the user to
maintain a consistent way of storing descriptions of his image collection, or
tweaking/substituting this script to suit their needs.

This script works by running
.BR jhead (1)
to retrieve the JPEG (non-EXIF) comment section.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR jhead (1),
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.BR xscreensaver\-demo (1),
.BR xscreensaver\-getimage (1),
.BR xscreensaver\-getimage\-file (1),
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2011 by Marcin Owsiany.  Permission to use, copy,
modify, distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for
any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above
copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
No representations are made about the suitability of this software for
any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Marcin Owsiany <marcin@owsiany.pl>, 10-May-2011.
